feat!: add static/dynamic context (#171)
open-feature/spec: specification/sections/05-events.md

---
title: Events
description: Specification defining event semantics
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# 5. Events

[![experimental](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Status&message=experimental&color=orange)](https://github.com/open-feature/spec/tree/main/specification#experimental)

## Overview

`Events` allow consumers (_application integrator_, _application author_, _integration author_) to react to state changes in the provider or underlying flag management system, such as flag defintion changes, provider readiness, or error conditions. A provider may emit events or run a callback indicating that it received a certain event, optionally providing data associated with that event. Handlers registered on the client are then invoked with this data.

### 5.1. Provider events

#### Requirement 5.1.1

> > The provider **MUST** define a mechanism for signalling the occurance of a set of events, including `PROVIDER_READY`, `PROVIDER_ERROR`, `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` and `PROVIDER_SHUTDOWN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The provider **MUST** define a mechanism for signalling the occurrence of a set of events, including `PROVIDER_READY`, `PROVIDER_ERROR`, `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` and `PROVIDER_SHUTDOWN`.
```

> > The provider **MUST** define a mechanism for signalling the occurrence of a set of events, including `PROVIDER_READY`, `PROVIDER_ERROR`, `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` and `PROVIDER_SHUTDOWN`.

Author: I guess the language needs to be made more clear here. This is a requirement on the provider interface(s) - the SDK - not on the actual implementation. The SDK has to allow the provider-author the ability to implement events, but the provider author need not actually implement them if it's not relevant to them.

In the experimental web-sdk, I've made the events completely optional.

> > The provider **MUST** define a mechanism for signalling the occurrence of a set of events, including `PROVIDER_READY`, `PROVIDER_ERROR`, `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` and `PROVIDER_SHUTDOWN`.

Author: ```suggestion
> The provider **MAY** define a mechanism for signalling the occurrence of one of a set of events, including `PROVIDER_READY`, `PROVIDER_ERROR`, `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` and `PROVIDER_SHUTDOWN`.
```

> > The provider **MUST** define a mechanism for signalling the occurrence of a set of events, including `PROVIDER_READY`, `PROVIDER_ERROR`, `PROVIDER_CONFIGURATION_CHANGED` and `PROVIDER_SHUTDOWN`.

Author: I've updated this language.

see: [provider event types](./../types.md#provider-events)

### 5.2. Event handlers

#### Requirement 5.2.1

> > The `client` **MUST** provide an `addHandler` function for attaching callbacks to `provider events`, which accepts event type(s) and a function to run when the associated event(s) occur.

Reviewer 2: Is the term `callback` language agnostic?
